# livechat-app
This project is a demonstration of real-time server communication
between two users using React and Node.js with the help of socket.io.
The application allows users to enter their username and select a
specific chat room to join. Once both users have selected the same chat
room, they can interact with each other in real time.

Features:

User Authentication: Users can enter their username to identify
themselves in the chat. Chat Room Selection: Users can choose a specific
chat room to join and interact with other users in that room. Real-time
Communication: Messages sent by one user are instantly displayed to both
the sender and the recipient. Message Information: Each message is
accompanied by the username of the sender and other relevant
information. 
https://github.com/bensmithcodes/livechat-app/assets/105318772/3dcb6895-1edb-40b4-9127-e2ca18715a9a

Installation:

Clone the repository: git clone
https://github.com/bensmithcodes/livechat-app.git Navigate to the project
directory: cd chatReact Install the dependencies: npm install Start the
server: npm start Open the application in your browser:
http://localhost:3000 The other user will use http://localhost:3000,in a
different internet browser. Usage: Safari, microsoft edge, google
chrome.

Launch the application in your browser. Enter your username in the
designated input field. Select a chat room from the available options.
If another user has joined the same chat room, you will be able to
exchange messages with them in real time. Messages sent by you and the
other user will be displayed with the respective usernames and relevant
information. Contributing: Contributions are welcome! If you find any
bugs or have suggestions for improvements, please submit an issue or a
pull request. Make sure to follow the code of conduct when contributing.

License: This project is licensed under the MIT License.
